---
_db_id: 865
content_type: topic
ready: true
tags:
- design-thinking
- design-thinking-sprint
title: Terminology
---

# Terminology
## Know the meaning
**AGILE:** Agile is an iterative approach to project management and software development that helps teams deliver value to their customers faster and with fewer headaches. Instead of betting everything on a "big bang" launch, an agile team delivers work in small, but consumable, increments. Requirements, plans, and results are evaluated continuously so teams have a natural mechanism for responding to change quickly.

**BRAINSTORMING:** Brainstorming is a group or individual creativity approach where design solutions are generated by members of the team in a collaborative session. A method for generating ideas. intended to inspire the free- ﬂowing sharing of thoughts of an individual or a group of people, typically while withholding criticism in order to promote uninhibited thinking.

**CLOSED QUESTIONS:** Questions that elicit a yes/no response.

**EMPATHY:** Principle in the design thinking process and human- centred design, in which the user’s perspective is always represented.

**ETHNOGRAPHY:** The process of gathering information about users and tasks directly from users in their normal work. home or leisure environment.

**HIGH FIDELITY PROTOTYPE:** A prototype which is quite close to the ﬁnal product, with lots of detail and a good indication of the ﬁnal proposed aesthetics and functionality.

**HOW MIGHT WE? (HMW):** A positive, actionable question that frames the challenge but does not point to any one solution.

**HUMAN-CENTRED:** An approach to design that adapts the solution to the end user through understanding the end user. The understanding is developed through engaging the end user and testing a variety of possible solutions through an iterative design process.

**INTERVIEW GUIDE:** A list of questions to direct conversation and make sure key issues get discussed. The guide should be ﬂexible to move with conversation but at the same time its main purpose is to keep the interview on topic.

**ITERATE:** The act of repeating a process with the aim of approaching a desired goal, target or result. Each repetition of the process is also called an iteration. In design thinking it refers to the cycles of prototyping, testing and revision.

**JOURNEY MAP:** A visual representation of a particular person or persona’s experience with a service. The experience is documented over time and often shows multiple channels.

**PERSONA:** A persona is a ﬁctitious(make believe) identity that reﬂects one of the user groups for who you are designing. A representation of a user segment with shared needs and characteristics. In user- centered design and marketing. Personas are archetypal characters that represent different user segments that might use a product or service in a similar way.

**PROTOTYPE:** A prototype is a model built to test a concept with end users in order to learn from. Prototyping helps understand.

**SPRINT:** A sprint is a short, time-boxed period when a scrum team works to complete a set amount of work. Sprints are at the very heart of scrum and agile methodologies.

**QUALITATIVE:** Qualitative research involves collecting and analyzing non-numerical data (e.g., text, video, or audio) to understand concepts, opinions, or experiences. It can be used to gather in-depth insights into a problem or generate new ideas for research. 

**QUANTITATIVE:** is the process of collecting and analysing numerical data. It can be used to find patterns and averages, make predictions, test causal relationships, and generalise results to wider populations.

**LOW FIDELITY:**  (lo-fi) prototyping is a quick and easy way to translate high-level design concepts into tangible and testable artifacts. The first and most important role of lo-fi prototypes is to check and test functionality rather than the visual appearance of the product.

**HIGH FIDELITY:**  (hi-fi) prototypes appear and function as similar as possible to the actual product that will ship. Teams usually create high-fidelity prototypes when they have a solid understanding of what they are going to build and they need to either test it with real users or get final-design approval from stakeholders.

**OPEN-ENDED QUESTIONS:** "Open-ended questions prompt the beginning of a longer conversation by asking questions starting with "why," "how," and "what if?" Closed-ended questions can be answered with single-word answers, such as "yes" or "no”.

**STAKEHOLDER:** A stakeholder is a person who has a vested interest in a project with a goal of gathering insights to drive the project’s success.