---
_db_id: 372
content_type: topic
nqf: ncit
ready: false
tags: []
title: Analytics, Surveys, and Reports
unit_standards:
- 115365
---

## 1. Google Analytics

Google Analytics is a vital tool for web developers and business analysts. 

Register for the Analytics Academy and complete all units in the first three modules:

1. Introducing Google Analytics
2. The Google Analytics layout
3. Basic Reporting
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/course/6?hl=en

## 2. Creating surveys and forms

The most common way to collect information is through online forms and surveys. The design of these forms can make or break the success of collecting information and data. The following article outlines the best practices to follow when creating an online form:

https://uxdesign.cc/design-better-forms-96fadca0f49c (required reading)

As with anything related to design, people have different opinions about what is the best practice. If you’re interested in this topic, visit the page below and notice the similarities and differences in “best practice” recommendations from the first link:

https://conversionxl.com/blog/form-design-best-practices/ (optional)

## 3. Reports
Good reports are key to making informed decisions. Luckily, there are many tools that will help you organise and visualise the data you've collected.

You've already seen many reports from Google Analytics. You should also familiarise yourself with the reports that are generated by Google Forms. Many of these reports and graphs are generated automatically, but you can also use the data in the spreadsheet of responses to create your own reports.