---
_db_id: 372
content_type: topic
ncit_standards:
- 115365
prerequisites:
  hard:
  - workshops/survey-design
ready: true
tags:
- analytics
- surveys
- reports
title: Analytics, Surveys, and Reports
topic_needs_review: true
---

Collecting and understanding data is a critical skill for any kind of coding professional. 

## 1. Google Analytics

Google Analytics is a vital tool for web developers and business analysts. 

If you are a web developer it would be worthwhile to register for the Analytics Academy and complete all units in the first three modules:

1. Introducing Google Analytics
2. The Google Analytics layout
3. Basic Reporting
   
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/course/6?hl=en

## 2. Creating surveys and forms

A very common way to collect information is through online forms and surveys. The design of these forms is critical, you need to ask the right questions if you want to make good decisions. The following article outlines the best practices to follow when creating an online form:

https://uxdesign.cc/design-better-forms-96fadca0f49c (required reading)

As with anything related to design, people have different opinions about what is the best practice. If you’re interested in this topic, visit the page below and notice the similarities and differences in “best practice” recommendations from the first link:

https://conversionxl.com/blog/form-design-best-practices/ (optional)

## 3. Reports

Good reports are key to making informed decisions. Luckily, there are many tools that will help you organise and visualise the data you've collected.

You've already seen many reports from Google Analytics. You should also familiarise yourself with the reports that are generated by Google Forms. Many of these reports and graphs are generated automatically, but you can also use the data in the spreadsheet of responses to create your own reports.